Module / Session - date

1.3 - 13/10/20

Reflection

In today's session we were introduced to GIT/Github. We were shown a quick demo on the advantages of using VSCode. We installed an extension on to VSCode. We have done an introductory demonstration of how to commit changes in files to a repo that we cloned onto our machine. 

10 years ago I used to use Notepad++ and this is much better. 

 Modules
    Sessions 3 and 4 (20 and 22 October)
       I have learned about html, with the most common tags such as images, hyperlinks, ordered and unordered lists and document setup.
       I've played with CSS, adding styles to a html file using a relative link to a styelsheet.

    27 October

       In 2.2 and 2.3 we learned about specificity, classes and divs, and some fancy html 5 header and footer tags.

    29 October

        In 2.3 we looked at the box model and played with margins, borders and padding.

        This took me back to 10 years ago when I'd be trying to work out why my floats weren't working and it was usually because I'd got my padding sums wrong.

        In 2.4 We started looking at relative and absolute positioning.

   3 November

      We learned about floats (still a thing(!)), z-indexes and some really interesting stuff about frameworks. I can't decide if they feel like cheating or not.

      Google homepage copy task is a lot of fun. Seems to be 40% making stuff look right and 60% moving it around, but that might be FE development in general.

   5 November

      First taste of Javascript which was a lot more accessible than I imagined. I managed to self-fix a keychain issue with my GitHub desktop without totally losing my way in the lesson.

      De-mystified a lot of stuff for me.


   10 November

   Functions and program flow which was quite fun in the end

   12 November

   Three practical exercises creating small js programs using functions, logic and different operators.

   17 November

   Loops, objects and arrays. Getting real now.

   19 November

   Practicals using loops, arrays, logic, applying maths to variables etc.
   Did this on 21 November as had to drop out on the day.
   Finally figured out how to simply do percentages in Javascript.